Hi! I’m Jabril, and welcome to Crash Course Artificial Intelligence.
Whether we notice it or not, artificial intelligence
is EVERYWHERE.
It’s guiding critical decisions in every
field, from finance to health.
It’s driving the algorithms of technology
giants like Google, Amazon, Facebook, and Netflix.
And it’s what puts the “smart” in our
smart devices like Siri, Alexa, and Google Assistant.
Artificially intelligent systems are analyzing
/huge/ amounts of data that we’re generating
every day, to infer patterns and predict likely futures.
Like the amount of yogurt people might buy next week at the grocery store,
so the store knows how much to stock.
Everyone seems to be talking about AI and
how it’s going to revolutionize the world
or create some dystopian future.
While we don’t know what the future
holds, we at Crash Course believe that creating
a better outcome starts with a better understanding.
The goal of this course is to teach the logic behind AI by tracing its history, examining
how it’s being used today, and showing some practical examples.
And we’re going to try something a little
different, we’ll work together on labs,
writing and implementing code to program our
very own AI systems!
Along the way, we’ll spend several episodes
on a hot area of AI known as machine learning.
Using the brain as inspiration, these
AI can learn from examples.
We’ve taught machines to recognize people
in photos, predict the next word we’re going
to type on our phones, and recommend videos
for us on YouTube!
But AI is broader than just machine learning.
So we’ll talk about how AI systems
can act based on plans, rules, and logical
representations of the world.
These are the kinds of algorithms that are
used to plan the path of a delivery-drone
or determine the best move in a game of chess.
But before we get into all the technical stuff, I should introduce myself.
I’m your human-host, Jabril!
I have a YouTube channel called Jabrils, where
I look for interesting problems, be it personal
or universal, try to solve them using code,
and vlog my adventures and mistakes along
the way!
I got my start in machine learning when I
decided to build a machine learning game from
scratch.
I didn’t have any prior knowledge on the
subject, which I think ended up helping it
resonate with people.
Now I’m hosting Crash Course AI, and I’m
not doing it alone!
John Green Bot?
This is my non-human sidekick, John-Green-bot, who will help me demonstrate some core ideas and show
the limits and possibilities of current AI.
John Green Bot: Greetings, human viewers.
Now, I’m excited to learn about AI, I because I want to be able to go to new cities & be
guaranteed to get the type of pizza that I
think is tastiest, not necessarily what’s most popular.
Or when I go to the doctor, I could get a
prescription specifically tailored to me and
my exact symptoms. With AI this type of future is possible.
AI is still a new field, so there are a lot
of problems to solve but not that many people
trying to solve them.
We also have to think about what the future
of AI means for us as humans, & I believe
it’s in our best interest to have as many
people as possible who understand the field of AI
so that the conversation can expand.
Thanks for watching.
And as they say in John Green Bot’s hometown…
John Green Bot: Don’t Forget To Be Blossom!
No.
John Green Bot.
AWESOME.
Don’t forget to be AWESOME.
We’ll see you guys next week!
Thanks to PBS for sponsoring Crash Course AI!
If you want to help keep Crash Course free
for everyone, forever, you can join our community
on Patreon.
And if you want to keep learning from this
course, click the playlist below.